Accessibility docs (#1)
we-make-websites/wmw-coding-guidelines: accessibility/README.md

    Search the site
  </label>

  <input id="search" type="text" name="search">
  ```

### Ensure interactive elements have accessible text

#### Don't

```vue
<a class="site-logo" href="/">
  <brand-logo />
</a>

<button
  type="button"
  @click="openMenuDrawer"
>
  <icon-menu />
</button>

<a href="/account">
  <icon-account />
</a>

<a href="/sale">
  <!-- Image containing embedded text about a 10% off sale -->
  <img src="10-off-promo-image.jpg">
</a>

```

#### Do

```vue
<a class="site-logo" href="/">
  <brand-logo />
  
  <span class="visually-hidden">
    My Shop Name
  </span>
</a>

<button
  type="button"
  @click="openMenuDrawer"
>
  <icon-menu />
  
  <span class="visually-hidden">
    Toggle Menu
  </span>
</button>

<a href="/account">
  <icon-account />
  
  <span class="visually-hidden">
    Account
  </span>
</a>

<a href="/sale">
  <!-- Image containing embedded text about a 10% off sale -->
  <img src="10-off-promo-image.jpg" alt="Get 10% off">
</a>
```

* When using `<button>` or `<a>` elements containing SVG elements, ensure that accessible text is also included
  * If the text should not be visible, the `visually-hidden` class can be used

> * If a `<button>` or `<a>` contains a `<img>` element - ensure that there is either appropriate `alt` text on the image, or add a supporting `visually-hidden` span with appropriate text

Reviewer: Would it be possible to add a note that if `visually-hidden` text is used, the `alt` should be empty? Otherwise screenreaders will read out possibly duplicate or irrelevant content

Author: Good point - I've added a line about this

  <h1 id="template-title">
    Title for the section
  </h1>

  <!-- other content -->
</section>
```
* Ensure that the element referenced by `aria-labelledby` exists on the page.
  * If the referenced element is missing, screen readers will still read out the the other text content contained in the element, but users may be missing out on the additional context that the referenced element might be adding
* When using `aria-labelledby` in a component, consider whether the element you are referencing existing inside the component's template code.
  * If the element you are targeting with `aria-labelledby` is stored in another component or snippet, you may not be able to guarantee that it will always be on the page.
  * In this case, opt to use `<span class="visually-hidden">` or `aria-label` instead.
* Additional documentation: [MDN - aria-labelledby](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-labelledby)

#### `aria-label`
* `aria-label` is another approach for labelling elements, and can be used when there is no visible element in the DOM that can be used directly as a label or referenced with `aria-labelledby`

> * Examples of using this are similar to adding a `<span class="visually-hidden">` element

Reviewer: Would it be worth adding some context why we're using `visually-hidden` text in the above examples?

I think I generally use them because `aria-label` has had a rocky history with screenreader support ([see this blog post from 2020](https://gomakethings.com/revisting-aria-label-versus-a-visually-hidden-class/)), and printed text is always read out (unless `aria-hidden` or `display: none` is present - but I don't know if that's actually the reason.

Author: This is good to know - I've always preferred using `visually-hidden` over `aria-label` - so its good to have some reasons why to back this up.
I've added some notes based on that blog post and linked to it directly

Reviewer: Oooh I didn't even think about translation! Nice!

Example of a dynamic id based on unique prop data: 
```vue
<template>
  <div class="quantity-selector">
    <label
      :for="`quantity-selector-input-${lineItem.key}`"
      class="visually-hidden"
    >
      Quantity
    </label>

    <input
      :id="`quantity-selector-input-${lineItem.key}`"
      type="number"
      value="1" 
    >
  </div>
</template>
<script>
export default {
  name: 'QuantitySelector',
  
  props: {

    // Cart line item data from Shopify
    lineItem: {
      type: Object,
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

Example of setting an explicit unique id with a `namespace` prop
```vue
<template>
  <div class="variant-dropdown">
    <label
      :for="`${namespace}-variant-dropdown`"
      class="visually-hidden"
    >
      Quantity
    </label>

    <select :id="`${namespace}-variant-dropdown`">
      <option v-for="option in options">
    </select>
  </div>
</template>
<script>
export default {
  name: 'VariantDropdown',
  
  props: {
    namespace: {
      type: String,
      default: 'default'
      required: true,
    },
    
    options: {
      type: Array,
      default: () => [],

> 

Reviewer: How nitpicky should we be with code examples 👀 
Looks like there's an extra newline here that can be removed

Author: Good spot - Its a little harder to pick up code example styleguide issues when I'm working just in markdown.

Fixed this 👍

# Accessibility

These rules apply to all Liquid, HTML, and Vue `<template>` code.

The examples given here will mainly be written in Vue, but the same rules apply for vanilla JS code-bases.

## Table on contents

* [Native Elements](#native-elements)
* [Keyboard Support](#keyboard-support)
* [Accessible Text](#accessible-text)
* [Alt Text](#alt-text)
* [Element IDs](#element-ids)
* [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

[← Back to homepage](../README.md)

## Native Elements

* [Use `<button>` elements for clickable items](#use-button-element-for-clickable-items)
* [Don't use `<a>` elements where a `<button>` would be better](#dont-use-a-elements-where-a-button-would-be-better)
* [Use input events rather than wrapping click events](#use-input-events-rather-than-wrapping-click-events)

### Use `<button>` element for clickable items

#### Don't

```vue
<div
  class="dropdown-menu__input"
  @click="toggleMenu"
>
  <span v-text="label">
  <icon-chevron-down />
</div>

<responsive-image

>   @click="handleImageClick"

Reviewer 2: Single attributes should be on the same line.

/>

<a @click="toggleItem">
  Click here
</a>
```

#### Do

```vue
<button
  class="dropdown-menu__input"
  @click="toggleMenu"
>
  <span v-text="label">
  <icon-chevron-down />
</button>

<button @click="handleImageClick">
  <responsive-image />
</button>

```
  
* Prefer using native `<button>` element instead of adding click event handlers to non-interactive elements like `<div>`

#### Why

* The native `<button>` element comes with accessible defaults out of the box such as:
  * Keyboard interaction (buttons can be triggered with `Space` or `Enter` keys)
  * Keyboard focusable
  * Buttons are declared correctly to screen-readers
  * A button's interactivity can be natively disabled with the `disabled` attribute
* Re-creating all of these out of the box defaults on a `<div>` or other element would require additional attributes and event handlers which results in more code to write and more code shipped to the user - Using native elements has performance benefits too.
* E.g. here's a comparison of using a `<div>` element vs a `<button>` element:
```vue
// Bad
<div
  role="button"
  tabindex="0"
  @click="handleClick"
  @keydown="handleKeyDown"
>
  Click me
</div>

// Good

> <button @click=:handleClick>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<button @click="handleClick">
```
Right? At least to be consistent with your previous 'Good' example.

  Click me
</button>
```
  * Note: This `<div>` in the example does not include additional features that the `<button>` comes with, such as indicating a `disabled` state, the code for `handleKeyDown` so that only responds to `Enter` and `Tab` 

### Don't use `<a>` elements where a `<button>` would be better

#### Don't

```vue
<a @click="toggleItem">
  Click here
</a>

> <a href="#" @click.prevent="doSomething">

Reviewer 2: Multiple attributes should be split onto multiple lines.

  Do Something
</a>
```

#### Do

```vue
<button @click="toggleItem">
  Click here
</button>

<button @click.prevent="doSomething">
  Do something
</button>
```

* If an element is not linking somewhere, it's better to use a `<button>` element instead

>   * `<a>` tags should not be used without a `href` attribute or with blank or javascript `href` attribute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `<a>` tags should not be used without a `href` attribute or with blank or javascript `href` attribute
```
I'd say this bullet is a 'sub' bullet of the preceding one (it's not really related) so can be outdented.

#### Exceptions
* You should consider using a `<a>` element in cases where clicking on the element updates the URL and visiting that URL directly would display a different page
* An example would be Colour Swatches, where clicking on a swatch would update the current page and load in a new product in Vue, but the data is fetched from a separate product with its own URL
* The benefit here is that web crawlers can read these links to discover the other pages

```vue
<a
  :href="`/products/${swatchProduct.handle}`"
  @click.prevent="handleSwatchClick"
  v-text="swatchProduct.color"
/>
```

### Use input events rather than wrapping click events

#### Don't

```vue
<li
  v-for="item in items"
  :key="item.id"
  @click="filter(item.value)"
>
  <input
    :id="item.id"
    :checked="item.active"
    type="checkbox"
    :value="item.value"
  >

>   <label

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: Newline between multi-line elements.

    :for="item.id"
    v-text="item.label"
  >
</li>
```

#### Do

```vue
<li
  v-for="item in items"
  :key="item.id"
>
  <input
    :id="item.id"

>     :checked="item.active"

Reviewer 2: Possibly overcomplicates the example but `v-model` would be my preference for this sort of code.

Author: @csbrightside - I added this example in as a response to seeing this sort of `click` handler around an `input` element in some PLP filter implementations (I can see things like this on both Watsons and HyperX) - so the main purpose of this example was to address that. 

I agree that `v-model` would be the ideal for working with inputs but I'm not sure how that would look when working with a third party filter library like Algolia, and I think in the context of filters, using `v-model` can get complicated when you have a number of input elements. 

I'll do some investigation on `v-model` and see if I can create a suitable example for that use case of filtering on a PLP.

In the meantime do you think its OK to keep this example as is?

Reviewer 2: Yeah it's good.

    type="checkbox"
    :value="item.value" 
    @change="filter($event.target.value)"
  >

>   <label :for="item.id" v-text="item.label" />

Reviewer 2: Each attribute gets its own line.

</li>
```

* Instead of adding a click event to an `input` element's parent, use the native `input` or `change` events

[ꜛ Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Keyboard Support

* [Test keyboard focus](#test-keyboard-focus)
* [Test keyboard tab order](#test-keyboard-tab-order)
* [Focus Trap](#focus-trap)

### Test keyboard focus
* Ensure that interactive elements can be focussed and activated using a keyboard
* Ensure that functionality that supports mouse interactions (click, mousedown, mouseleave etc) have suitable keyboard-accessible alternatives

### Test keyboard tab order
* Ensure that keyboard focus order is correct
  * The order that items are focussed when tabbing should match the visual order of the elements on the page

>   * Try an ensure that the order elements in the DOM match the visual order on the site

Reviewer 2: Typo.
Try **and** ensure?
Try **to** ensure?

* Exceptions can be made here when the order changes responsively, e.g. when the order is correct on mobile screen sizes 

### Focus Trap

* Use a focus trap when opening overlays so that a keyboard user is only able to tab between elements inside the overlay
* Ensure that the focus trap is cleared when an overlay is closed
* Ensure that the focus trap is updated when the overlay state changes
  * Example: if you have a multi-tiered navigation, ensure that the focus trap updates as the user navigates between tiers
  * Example: if you have a search overlay and the results update as you type, ensure that focus trap updates as the content changes

> * Focus trapping can be achieved in Canvas projects with the `focusTrap` and `previousElement` helpers in the `accessibility.js` store - see [Canvas Gitbook - accessibility.js](https://we-make-websites.gitbook.io/canvas/features/vuex-stores/accessibility.js)

Reviewer 2: Frame 3 documentation is kept separate in the _frame/_ folder. By default this documentation assumes you're talking about a Canvas project.

The fact that most of the documentation is written in Vue suggests that Frame 3 could be ignored here.

* Focus trapping can be achieved in Frame 3 projects by using the `@shopify/theme-a11y` package - see [@shopify/theme-ally docs](https://github.com/Shopify/theme-scripts/blob/master/packages/theme-a11y/README.md)

#### Why

* Using a focus trap prevents users from tabbing to elements outside of the overlay element, preventing an issue where the user might not know which element they are focussed on

[ꜛ Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Accessible Text

* [Ensure that `input` elements have corresponding `label` elements](#ensure-that-input-elements-have-corresponding-label-elements)
* [Ensure interactive elements have accessible text](#ensure-interactive-elements-have-accessible-text)
* [Ensure correct usage of `aria-labelledby` and `aria-label`](#ensure-correct-usage-of-aria-labelledby-and-aria-label)

### Ensure that `input` elements have corresponding `label` elements

#### Don't

```html
<input
  id="newsletter-email"
  name="email" 

>   type="email"

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: `placeholder` comes before `type`.

  placeholder="Enter your email"
>
```

#### Do

```html
<label for="newsletter-email">
  Enter your email
</label>

<input
  id="newsletter-email"
  name="email" 
  type="email"
  placeholder="Enter your email"
>
```

> * Ensuring that you have that an `input` has a corresponding `label` element helps to describe the purpose and can provide instructions for the input for users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensuring that your `input` has a corresponding `label` element helps to describe the purpose of the input and can provide instructions for it for all users
```

> * A `label` should be used even when the input has a `placeholder` attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A `label` should be used even when the input has a `placeholder` attribute
```
Nitpick: Bullet points shouldn't end in a full stop.

  * Assistive technology, such as screen-readers do not treat placeholder text as labels, so a `placeholder` should be used alongside a label, not instead of a label

> * In some cases, a site's design may show inputs without visible labels. Sometimes this may be because other elements on the page give the input some context - for example a search text input placed directly next to a "Search" button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In some cases, a site's design may show inputs without visible labels, sometimes this may be because other elements on the page give the input some context - for example a search text input placed directly next to a 'Search' button
```
All sorts of nitpicks.

  * If a input does not have a visible label, a `<label>` element should still be added for the benefit of screen readers
  * A label can be hidden visually by adding the `visually-hidden` class to the `label`
  ```html
  <!-- Label will be available to assistive technology, but visually hidden -->

>   <label class="visually-hidden" for="search">

Reviewer 2: Attributes, single lines, etc.

Not going to point out further cases, please update all instances.

</a>

<a href="/sale">
  <!-- Image containing embedded text about a 10% off sale -->
  <img src="10-off-promo-image.jpg">
</a>

```

#### Do

```vue
<a class="site-logo" href="/">
  <brand-logo />
  
  <span class="visually-hidden">
    My Shop Name
  </span>
</a>

<button
  type="button"
  @click="openMenuDrawer"
>
  <icon-menu />
  
  <span class="visually-hidden">
    Toggle Menu
  </span>
</button>

<a href="/account">
  <icon-account />
  
  <span class="visually-hidden">
    Account
  </span>
</a>

<a href="/sale">
  <!-- Image containing embedded text about a 10% off sale -->
  <img src="10-off-promo-image.jpg" alt="Get 10% off">
</a>
```

* When using `<button>` or `<a>` elements containing SVG elements, ensure that accessible text is also included
  * If the text should not be visible, the `visually-hidden` class can be used
* If a `<button>` or `<a>` contains a `<img>` element - ensure that there is either appropriate `alt` text on the image, or add a supporting `visually-hidden` span with appropriate text.
  * Avoid using both `alt` and `visually-hidden` text for the same element, otherwise screen readers will read out possibly duplicate or irrelevant content.

>   * Setting an empty `alt` text is fine when using `visually-hidden` text - see [Alt Text](#alt-text) for more details.

Reviewer 2: @georgia-wmw @jamespeilow Do we want to mention `role="presentation"`? I seem to remember aXe used to flag that an image that's purely decorative should have the `role` attribute.

Though that might be out-of-date now.

Reviewer: [W3 states that using `role="presentation"` isn't as widely supported as an empty `alt` attribute](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decorative/), and using an empty `alt` is the first thing they recommend.

Depending on the image, it might be better to stick with empty `alt`s alone, just in case a future upload is informative too

Author: I think there's no action here? The _"empty `alt` with `visually-hidden` text"_ described here applies to interactive elements (buttons/links etc) and there is mention of empty alt texts in the Alt Text section for standard images

### Ensure correct usage of `aria-labelledby` and `aria-label` 

* The `aria-labelledby` and `aria-label` attributes provide another method for adding labels to elements
* These are alternatives to using a `visually-hidden` element showcased in the examples above

#### `aria-labelledby`

* `aria-labelledby` can be used to label an element based on the text content of another existing element by it's unique `id`
* If a heading is present inside a region, this could be a good candidate for `aria-labelledby`

```html

> <section aria-labelledby="template-title">

Reviewer 2: Might want to flag why `section` elements should be labelled in the first place.

I'm still doing it because I think aXe once flagged that all `section` elements should be labelled.

Reviewer: Good shout @csbrightside 

[Here's the W3 wiki which mentions labelling sections](https://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/wiki/Using_HTML5_section_element) (under User Agent and Assistive Technology Support Notes) and [here's a blog post updated in 2022](https://www.scottohara.me/blog/2021/07/16/section.html) outlining the same thing (they mention `title` but then suggest against it so we're good to stick with `aria-labelledby` and `aria-label`).

Author: Should we consider removing `aria-labelledby` on all our `section` elements?

I have been looking through the documentation that @georgia-wmw linked, along with adding some further reading and testing and I can't see that labelling all `section` elements is _required_ - it seems more like the opposite, that `section` elements should only be labelled in certain circumstances:

From the [Scott O'Hara blog post](https://www.scottohara.me/blog/2021/07/16/section.html#use-with-purpose):
> Regarding the `<section>` element’s implicit ARIA role, it is best named – thus exposing its role – only when absolutely necessary. Overpopulating a web page with landmarks will reduce their ability to help users find the most important parts of web pages. In other words, if everything’s a landmark then there’s nothing really special about them, is there? Instead, rely on proper heading levels to indicate implicit sections and sub-sections of your content.  

From [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/region_role#accessibility_concerns):
> Use sparingly! [Landmark roles](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles#3._landmark_roles) are intended to be used sparingly, to identify larger overall sections of the document. Using too many landmark roles can create "noise" in screen readers, making it difficult to understand the overall layout of the page.

I also did a basic test of some `<section>` elements without `aria-labelledby` on this codepen - https://codepen.io/jamespeilow/pen/vYvEeXN 
I did not see any accessibility issues flagged by Lighthouse or aXe Dev Tools, nor could I find any related rules in the [aXe Dev tools List of Rules](https://dequeuniversity.com/rules/axe/4.7)

I also did some testing with Voiceover on Mac on some of our recently launched Canvas sites, and there's a good amount of sites where the element referenced by `aria-labelledby` does not exist.
Given that the default ID for the `aria-labelledby` attribute that the Canvas `component` command creates contains the `section.id` - this results in Voiceover reading out the `id` string - for example: `section-title-template--16778842603746__5f8cbe58-204b-4065-b774-63f69e728aaf`. (Seen on [Stephen Webster](https://www.stephenwebster.com/))

If using `section` with `aria-labelledby` is best practice, I'm happy to keep this in Canvas, update this documentation and work on developer training to make sure its used properly and not ignored - but I couldn't find anything to back up using it on every section.

Also aware this could be broken out to a different discussion/ticket as it affects core Canvas.

**tldr: It looks like it might not be recommended to have `aria-labelledby`/`aria-label` on every `section` element, so it might be worth reviewing our usage of it**

Reviewer: Stephen Webster is like a weird fluke of a site where its lighthouse score is/was 99-100 but when you actually interact using keyboard-only/a screenreader it becomes ~~a nightmarish hellscape~~ tricky to navigate 😵‍💫 Anyways

You're correct in that too many landmarks can get confusing for a webpage. I did some digging and [technique ARIA13](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Techniques/aria/ARIA13) recommends using `aria-labelledby` for landmarks & regions, but then [technique ARIA20](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Techniques/aria/ARIA20) states 'don't use too many landmarks'. So the instructions seem a bit out of order there. [MDN also states to use `region`s with labels sparingly](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/region_role#accessibility_concerns) so that aXe flag could have been deprecated.

We could try and control landmark labels from CANVAS instead of passing this to every component. What if we only explicitly label PDPs and PLPs? I think those are pretty standard and predictable parts of all/most client websites. Then we can rely on appropriate HTML headings for segmenting the content itself (conscious that this is often up to client/designs and not always something in our control). The `aria-labelledby`s could use `{{ product.title }}` and `{{ collection.title }}` by default too, and there should be a loading state for both of these elements, so the ID would be present straight from page load (though that might get a bit repetitive)

Author: Thanks for that ARIA13 link @georgia-wmw.
The one thing that isn't clear with that is its relation to the `<section>` element - ARIA13 describes that "landmarks and regions" should use `aria-labelledby` - However a `<section>` element seems like a bit of a special case in that it only becomes a `region`/gets an implied `role="region"` when it is given an accessible name:

[From MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/region_role#description)
> Using the [`<section>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/section) element will automatically communicate a section has a role of region if it is given an accessible name. Developers should always prefer using the correct semantic HTML element, in this case <section>, over using ARIA.

I do think we could consider still using `aria-labelledby` for some of the key default Canvas components, but then removing it from the component template for other section type components - a developer could always add it back to a certain section if needed.

Loading state is probably another thing to consider - If a section is loading and the `aria-labelledby` element depends on data that isn't ready, I wonder if having "loading" as the `aria-labelledby`text is better or if its better to have nothing, or some other way of handling that

Reviewer 2: Do we just keep the labels on the sections that use the `template-title` ID instead of the `section-title-{{ section.id }}`? The assumption being those are on the 'main' components which are important to the page and not used on section everywhere sections.

Reviewer: I think that's a good idea! It's an easily identifiable landmark & most/all instances of `template-title` on the canvas repo reference a `h1` so there should only be 1 per page (keeping them sparse).

EDIT: I think we can ignore loading states for now. Anecdotally I've noticed that if an id isn't present in the Liquid loading state of a Vue component then Lighthouse would flag the 'id not found' error but if we're removing `aria-labelledby`s from sections then this wouldn't matter. I don't think we need a separate 'loading' string either, because the content of the loading states should be using `loading` strings (at least that's what I've used in Stephen Webster & Childsplay).

BUT [there's an aria attribute called `aria-live`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions) which covers dynamically updating portions of a webpage without reloading the page that caught my eye a while back which looks really interesting! Conscious that this is probably a conversation for another day, but its something we could keep in mind.

Author: I agree - Keeping the labels just for `template-title` ID sounds like a good approach considering they are the "main" sections/components on the site.

Reviewer 2: @jamespeilow Excellent, I'll look at updating the `component` command and removing labels from non-template ID sections, do you want to flag which sections should be labelled?

Author: @csbrightside @georgia-wmw - added a new section to call out using `aria-labelledby` with `<section>` elements, along with a general point in the `aria-labelledby` section to say that it probably doesn't need using in a lot of cases

Reviewer: @jamespeilow Looks good! I like the way everything's phrased. Spotted a couple of typos but otherwise it looks good from my end

  <h1 id="template-title">
    Title for the section
  </h1>

  <!-- other content -->
</section>
```

> * Ensure that the element referenced by `aria-labelledby` exists on the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the element referenced by `aria-labelledby` exists on the page
```

  * If the referenced element is missing, screen readers will still read out the the other text content contained in the element, but users may be missing out on the additional context that the referenced element might be adding
* When using `aria-labelledby` in a component, consider whether the element you are referencing existing inside the component's template code.

>   * If the element you are targeting with `aria-labelledby` is stored in another component or snippet, you may not be able to guarantee that it will always be on the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * If the element you are targeting with `aria-labelledby` is stored in another component or snippet, you may not be able to guarantee that it will always be on the page
```

* **Use `aria-label` with caution** - if adding `visually-hidden` text is possible, this is preferred instead
  * `aria-label` has a rocky history with screen reader support with certain combinations of screen readers and browsers, whereas printed text is always read out (unless `display: none` or `visibility: hidden` styles or the `hidden` or `aria-hidden` attributes are used)
  * Using `visually-hidden` text that is rendered in the DOM can also benefit users users that are translating the language of your site as these services are often better at detecting `visually-hidden` text then they are `aria-label` attributes
  * See [this blog post from 2020](https://gomakethings.com/revisting-aria-label-versus-a-visually-hidden-class/)
* Examples of using this are similar to adding a `<span class="visually-hidden">` element

```vue
<button
  type="button"
  aria-label="Toggle Menu"
  @click="openMenuDrawer"
>
  <icon-menu />
</button>

<a href="/account" aria-label="Account">
  <icon-account />
</a>
```

[ꜛ Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Alt Text

> * Alt text is extremely useful for ensuring that images on the site can be used by people with various disabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Alt text is extremely useful for ensuring that images on the site can be used by people with various disabilities
```

* Images can be categorised in different ways and there are some different recommendations for alt text depending on the type of image.
* The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative has some good resources around Images:
  * [Images Tutorial](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/) - Outlines the different purposes an image might have and recommendations for adding accessible text

>   * [`alt` Decision Tree](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decision-tree/) - Provides a helpful decision tree on how to handle different situations with images, including when an empty `alt` attribute is appropriate. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [`alt` Decision Tree](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decision-tree/) - Provides a helpful decision tree on how to handle different situations with images, including when an empty `alt` attribute is appropriate
```

[ꜛ Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Element IDs

* A variety of accessibility code and functionality (such as the `label` element's `for` attribute, `aria-labelledby` and other `aria-` attributes) use the `id` attribute to reference other elements
  * For example, linking a checkbox input with a label using `id`/`for` allows the user to click on the label to toggle the checkbox
  * This helps make the input easier to trigger with a mouse, and also makes it possible to style custom inputs (for example custom checkboxes) by applying styles to the `<label>` element
* When writing components that use the `id` attribute - ensure that the `id` will always be unique

>   * Avoid hard coding an id for an element unless you know it will only be used once

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Avoid hard coding an `id` for an element unless you know it will only be used once
```
Consistency.

  * This is particularly important when the component is designed to be re-used, for example a swatch or a line item component

>   * Unique ids can be generated using passed in data, and additionally namespaces if needed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Unique IDs can be generated using passed in data, and additionally namespaces if needed
```
This line is more referring to the concept of 'IDs' rather than the attribute `id`, hence the different casing.

>   * For section type Canvas components - you could also pass the Shopify `section.id` as a prop and use that in your element id

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * For section type Canvas components - you could also pass the Shopify `section.id` as a prop and use that in your element `id`
```

> Example of a dynamic id based on unique prop data: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example of a dynamic `id` based on unique prop data: 
```

```vue
<template>
  <div class="quantity-selector">
    <label
      :for="`quantity-selector-input-${lineItem.key}`"
      class="visually-hidden"
    >
      Quantity
    </label>

    <input
      :id="`quantity-selector-input-${lineItem.key}`"
      type="number"
      value="1" 
    >
  </div>

> </template>

Reviewer 2: Add newline after `<template>` tag.

<script>
export default {
  name: 'QuantitySelector',
  
  props: {

>     // Cart line item data from Shopify

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't have a newline before it as it's an inline comment. Only block comments require them.

    lineItem: {
      type: Object,
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

Example of setting an explicit unique id with a `namespace` prop
```vue
<template>
  <div class="variant-dropdown">
    <label
      :for="`${namespace}-variant-dropdown`"
      class="visually-hidden"
    >
      Quantity
    </label>

    <select :id="`${namespace}-variant-dropdown`">
      <option v-for="option in options">
    </select>
  </div>

> </template>

Reviewer 2: Add newline after `<template>`.

<script>
export default {
  name: 'VariantDropdown',
  
  props: {
    namespace: {
      type: String,
      default: 'default'
      required: true,
    },
    

>     options: {

Reviewer 2: We haven't decided yet on whether we'll have newlines between props yet.

Author: Removed the newline for now

      type: Array,
      default: () => [],
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

```vue
<!--- Usage -->
<variant-dropdown namespace="product-form" :options="options" />
<!-- Outputs select with the id `product-form-variant-dropdown` -->

<variant-dropdown namespace="sticky-product-form" :options="options" />
<!-- Outputs select with the id `sticky-product-form-variant-dropdown` -->
```
* Use unique data from the component's props, or add a `namespace` prop, or use a combination of both to ensure that the `id` is always unique
* When using a `namespace` prop, make the prop `required` to ensure that its not missed
* Utilise the browser tools and Storybook Accessibility checks that detect if an `id` is not unique
* Consider your loading states as well as your standard/active states

>   * Often when a component is in a loading state it might not have access prop data that could be used for a unique id - For example using a `product.id` in an element's id, but the product is still being fetched and not yet set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Often when a component is in a loading state it might not have access prop data that could be used for a unique `id` - For example using a `product.id` in an element's `id`, but the product is still being fetched and not yet set
```

* The `aria-labelledby` and `aria-label` attributes provide another method for adding labels to elements
* These are alternatives to using a `visually-hidden` element showcased in the examples above

#### `aria-labelledby`

* `aria-labelledby` can be used to label an element based on the text content of another existing element by it's unique `id`
* If a heading is present inside a region, this could be a good candidate for `aria-labelledby`

```html
<section aria-labelledby="template-title">
  <h1 id="template-title">
    Title for the section
  </h1>

  <!-- Other content -->
</section>
```

* In many cases, elements get accessible names from either their inner content (e.g. `<button>`, `<a>` or `<td>` elements), or from associated content (e.g. an `<input>` and it's `<label>` element), so there are many cases you won't need to reach for `aria-labelledby`
* Ensure that the element referenced by `aria-labelledby` exists on the page
  * If the referenced element is missing, screen readers will still read out the the other text content contained in the element, but users may be missing out on the additional context that the referenced element might be adding

> * When using `aria-labelledby` in a component, consider whether the element you are referencing existing inside the component's template code

Reviewer: Looks like a small typo here, should this read
```
When using `aria-labelledby` in a component, consider whether the element you are referencing exists inside the component's template code
```

  * Using `visually-hidden` text that is rendered in the DOM can also benefit users users that are translating the language of your site as these services are often better at detecting `visually-hidden` text then they are `aria-label` attributes
  * See [this blog post from 2020](https://gomakethings.com/revisting-aria-label-versus-a-visually-hidden-class/)
* Examples of using this are similar to adding a `<span class="visually-hidden">` element

```vue
<button
  type="button"
  aria-label="Toggle Menu"
  @click="openMenuDrawer"
>
  <icon-menu />
</button>

<a
  href="/account"
  aria-label="Account"
>
  <icon-account />
</a>
```

### Ensure correct usage of `aria-labelledby` on `<section>` elements

* When a `<section>` element is given an accessible name, for example with the `aria-labelledby` or `aria-label` attribute, the element receives an implicit ARIA attribute [`role="region"`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/region_role) which marks it as a [landmark](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles#3._landmark_roles) for screen readers and other assistive technologies

> * These landmarks can then be used as another method for screen reader users to navigate around the page and understand it's contents

Reviewer: One small typo here - `it's` should be `its`
```These landmarks can then be used as another method for screen reader users to navigate around the page and understand its contents```
